### using Application.Volatile

Mentioned above, there is one surefire way to ensure that your UDF will be called whenever there is a change anywhere on the spreadsheet: mark the function as Volatile. This is done by calling Application.Volatile somewhere in your UDF. TODO: is this right? Once you have made this call, your UDF will be called anytime a calculation is done. This also means that anything that depends on your cell will be recalculated every time. There is a huge upside to using Volatile UDFs in certain instance: you are guaranteed that they represent the correct value. THe downside is that your UDF is being called constantly which means that if it is slow, your entire spreadsheet will be slow. If your UDF is littered across 10,000 cells, it will be run 10,000 times even if only a single cell changed. It is easy to underestimated how much this can slow down a Workbook. Having said that, sometimes speed is not a factor and you just want things to eb correct.

There are other functions (INDIRECT and OFFSET are the main ones) in Excel that are volatile, so it is not some awful thing to do necessarily. You should mark something as Volatile however only as a last resort or possibly as a first resort if you're just punching something out.

To avoid using Volatile, you may be able to have your UDF take an additional parameter to ensure that it is on the calculation chain of all the cells it depends on. Note: you don't actually have to use the parameters for anything, but if they appear in the UDF call, it will force Excel's calculation tree. Continuing with the statistic example from above, if you know that all of the data that could change is in columns B and C, you can simple send B:C in as a parameter to the UDF. This ensures that a change in those columns will force the UDF to call. You can then continue to compute the Range using your more complicated logic. This is somewhat wasteful and means you have extra parameters which don't do anything, but it can be a cleaner (and faster) solution than using Volatile.
