### when does a UDF update

The next limitation to consider is that a UDF will only update when the Ranges it refers to are changed.  This is related ot the dependency tree described above.  Excel will only call your UDF if one of the cells that it directly depends on it is updated.  This is important because you have access to the entire Workbook inside a UDF so you can create a situation where your UDF _should_ update something, but it doesn't because it does not know that it should have been updated.  This si discussed later, but the quick way around this limit is to mark your UDF as Volatile.  See the warnings later related to this.

A common example of when this sort of issue pops up is when you are using a reference to a Range inside the UDF that is computed only inside the UDF.  For example, you want to do some statistics for a single Range that are dependent on a larger Range of data.  YOu can write a UDF that takes the single cell as a parameter but then compute the larger Range inside the UDF without having to refer to it.  Maybe that larger Range is a mess via normal Excel so you've skipped that step.  Well, be aware that your UDF will only calculate for the even cell if the cell it refers to changes.  This means that the larger group may change -- and invalidate your current result -- but if the single cell stays the same, then your UDF will not update that cell.

This same issue pops up if you are using properties of the Range that are not a part of the calculation model for Excel.  That is, there are some changes which will not trigger a recalculation from Excel.  These are typically related to using the formatting of a cell in a UDF.  A very common example is returning the Range.Text from a UDF so that you can get the value exactly as it is displayed in the spreadsheet.  If you change the format of the cell, you are not guaranteed ot have the UDF called updating your UDF value.
