### Using Variables

It seems somewhat obvious that you would want ot use a variable after declaring and setting it.  This is generally alwayas the case (why else would you create the variable).  To that end, there are a pair of ways to use variables depending on whetehr it is a reference or value type.  The easier one to understand is the value tpye where you simply ues the variable as is the same as would appear in a mathematical expression.  The more complicated example comes with reference types where the variable stores a reference to another object.  These variables have the ability to access either a property of the type or the default `Value` of the type.  This distinction adn the overall distinction between reference and value can become incredibly confusing with the Excel Object Model since so many properties of objects reduce to value types.  An example is the value of a `Range` which will hold some numbre or string or Error depending on what the cell contains.

When accessing a proprety of the obejct, you will use the `.` and find the property by name.  In this way, you can chain together a series of comamdns to access the properties of objects.  It is oftentimes the case that the property is itself anotehr object hwich makes it possible to use another `.` to keep going.  If you are using the VBE and properly delcaring your variables, the VBE will work to provide helpful suggestions of waht may be possible to use next (this is called Intellisense).  The one pitful to Intellisense is when the return from a given property can be Variant or a combination of possible results. When this happens, Intellisense will not offer any suggestions and you are left guessing whether or not the command exsits.  This is where it can be quite helpful to do one of two things:

- Create a new variable with the tpye that you know the object will have and Set that reference before using it. This "cheats" and tells Intellisense exactly twhat you expect to exist.
- Read through the documentation and gain an understanding of what ypes are possible and just use them.  There is no rule that the type must be suggested by Intellisense for it to be valid.

In general, I take a combination of those two approaches often.  If I expect to use the vriable a njmber of times, I will go with the new variable route to avoid guessing properties later.  If I only need the variable once or am copying code from somewehre else (and know it works), I will just go with the code as is without Intellisense.  The one upside of creating new variables is that it forces you to be more explitcit with your declarations.  It also clearly shows your intent to other developers thta may see your code later.  Finally, there is nothing worse than missing a typo that Intellisense didn't catch and having that be a shwo stopping bug at some poinit.

I mentioned it above, but it is worht digging into the default `Value` property a little more. This can be a source of confusiojn because very often, you will accidentally use the name of a variable wiitout calling for a property.  In other programming languages, this will result in a compile time or runtime error that is thrown because of the bad call.  In VBA, your code will run and even worse will return somethign from teh object that may not be what oyu want.  When this happens, it can be incredibly diffciult to track down the soruce of the error.  To avoid this, you could never use the variable name as a shortcut ot the `.Value` property.  In practice this is a pain to manage and I will often mix and match whether or not Value is called.  Sometimes, I am tired of typing out Value and just let the default work.  Other times, I am being very diligent about calling evertyhing explicitly to avoid some unforeseen error later.  You will find that this comes down to your own preference and hte preferences of others working on your code.
