### ScreenUpdating

Screen updating is one of those things that seems fairly silly if you are coming from another programmign environemtn. In the vast majority of other programmign settings, it is very uncommon for all of your changes to produce an immdaite visual reuslt. ON the one hand, this is doccifult and on the other, it is awful for performance. Exel takes the opposite approahc since it is a user focused GUI that offers a scripting environemtn for uaotmatiojn. The default in Excel is that all of your comands will trigger hte normal render and refersh that would have occurred had you manually made the change. IN practice, this can often prpduce a very cool effect where the cimouter is quite literally doing all of the work for the user. once oyu get over the appeal of this, you will quikcly be left with the question of: how much ƒaster will my code be if I do not process all of these visual updates? The answer: much faster.

There are very few risks to disabling the screen. The biggest risk is that you forget to enabled it again (usually because of an error) and then your usre will get odd behavior. In a lot of case, Excel will actually enable the screen anyways so the actual risk here is minimal.

The only real reason to leave the screen active is in the case where your automation can ataully be usefully reviewed by the user. In that case, you may consider leaving the scren active so that the user can "wathc" what is happening. Some users like to see what hte code is doing.
