### inputs

Back to the overall structure, there are inputs, outputs, and intermediate results. Depending on what you are doing, some of these aspects may just exist on/within the spreadsheet and be easy to overlook as an input or output. It's not until you wire up a more complicated workflow that you are forced to recognize the different pieces in a spreadsheet for waht they are. On the input front, there are a handful of items that should trigger your thought of "input":

* A file that contains some data to be processed, filtered, etc.
* A couple of columns in a spreadsheet that need to be processed adn then charted.
* 15 scattered cells that meet some criteria within a block of data
* THe contents of the clipbaord from anotehr program
* The formatting of a couple of cells

All of those items could be used as the input to a VBA workflow. Some of these items are odd to think about if you are coming frmo a notehr programmign environemtn. WHat does it mean for the formatting of a cell to be an input? Well Excel provides you with a rich Object Model full of metadata about all of the various cells of data. That metadata can be as useful as actualy strcutured data if there is a structure to it. I've seen it countless times where someone has methodically bolded all fo the cells of intereste in a block of data. That bold format is as good as some field called `Important = True` which could then be processed in anotehr language. Instead of that flag, you just check `Range.Format.Bold = True`. This of course relies on an implicit assumption about how the data is structured, but this is common in the Excel/VBA world.

Excel also has a very strong UI which makes it possible to immediately solicit user input in a way that is not easily replciated coming from other languages. Where this shows up most frequently is when you start using the `ActiveCell`, `ActiveWorkbook`, `Selection` and other objects whcih are dependent on user input. In a lot of other languages you have to spend a ton of time pointing the program to teh correct file, or rows, or columns, or other items to process. In Excel, you leverage the fact that most people know how to select or activate items they want, and you can use that user input as an actual input to your VBA. This beocmes quite powerful wehn you are building utlilty code that may be used across multiple workbooks. This becomes much harder in other languages where the idea of a "open file" is far less well defined. You certainly cannot query the selected cells in an R data table.
