### intermediate results

When discussing intermediate results, it is generally best to limit your thoughts to whatever will live only in VBA. In that sense, the question of intermediate results is: what programming constructs can exist without the user ever seeing them? Sometimes you need to determine the unique items in a list to do some processing. Do you generate that list of unique items in Excel somewhere? Or, do you determine the unique items using VBA and then output some result which may or may not include the full list of unique items. If you are doing the former, Excel provides a nice `RemoveDuplicates` function which will replicate the `Data->Remove Duplicates` functionality. This works great if you want the user to see the final list of values. You can also use a `Dictionary` in VBA to only store the unique vaults from a list. In this sense, the `Dictionary` represents an intermediate value that may not be shown to the user. You will make this decision several times before you realize that you are deciding whether or not something should exist in VBA only. Often times, the decision does not matter, but for certain workflows it can make a huge difference.

An example is a multi step process where you might want the user to verify the calculations so far and correct any errors. This can technically be done with VBA or Excel, but it is much easier to ask a user to verify an Excel spreadsheet than to debug the code and check `Locals`. If you need to do this verification step, then it makes a lot of sense to use an intermediate result that dumps back into Excel. In this sense, you've taken an intermediate result and converted it to an output. That output may or may not be modified by the user and it then becomes the input for the next step.
