### Using Variables

It seems somewhat obvious that you would want to use a variable after declaring and setting it. This is generally always the case (why else would you create the variable). To that end, there are a pair of ways to use variables depending on whether it is a reference or value type. The easier one to understand is the value type where you simply ues the variable as is the same as would appear in a mathematical expression. The more complicated example comes with reference types where the variable stores a reference to another object. These variables have the ability to access either a property of the type or the default `Value` of the type. This distinction and the overall distinction between reference and value can become incredibly confusing with the Excel Object Model since so many properties of objects reduce to value types. An example is the value of a `Range` which will hold some number or string or Error depending on what the cell contains.

When accessing a property of the object, you will use the `.` and find the property by name. In this way, you can chain together a series of commands to access the properties of objects. It is oftentimes the case that the property is itself another object which makes it possible to use another `.` to keep going. If you are using the VBE and properly declaring your variables, the VBE will work to provide helpful suggestions of what may be possible to use next (this is called Intellisense). The one pitfall to Intellisense is when the return from a given property can be Variant or a combination of possible results. When this happens, Intellisense will not offer any suggestions and you are left guessing whether or not the command exists. This is where it can be quite helpful to do one of two things:

- Create a new variable with the type that you know the object will have and Set that reference before using it. This "cheats" and tells Intellisense exactly what you expect to exist.
- Read through the documentation and gain an understanding of what types are possible and just use them. There is no rule that the type must be suggested by Intellisense for it to be valid.

In general, I take a combination of those two approaches often. If I expect to use the variable a number of times, I will go with the new variable route to avoid guessing properties later. If I only need the variable once or am copying code from somewhere else (and know it works), I will just go with the code as is without Intellisense. The one upside of creating new variables is that it forces you to be more explicit with your declarations. It also clearly shows your intent to other developers that may see your code later. Finally, there is nothing worse than missing a typo that Intellisense didn't catch and having that be a show stopping bug at some point.

I mentioned it above, but it is worth digging into the default `Value` property a little more. This can be a source of confusion because very often, you will accidentally use the name of a variable whiteout calling for a property. In other programming languages, this will result in a compile time or runtime error that is thrown because of the bad call. In VBA, your code will run and even worse will return something from the object that may not be what you want. When this happens, it can be incredibly difficult to track down the source of the error. To avoid this, you could never use the variable name as a shortcut to the `.Value` property. In practice this is a pain to manage and I will often mix and match whether or not Value is called. Sometimes, I am tired of typing out Value and just let the default work. Other times, I am being very diligent about calling everything explicitly to avoid some unforeseen error later. You will find that this comes down to your own preference and the preferences of others working on your code.
